Project logbook
===============

Somehow I figured out that instead of writing long, abstruse emails to my collaborators,
it's simpler to write them here. 

## Tue Jun 18 18:52:27 EDT 2013

The code for doing the maxmin transitive closure on the cyclical graphs works
correctly and it's now running on the full dbpedia graph on Smithers. I took me
some time to adapt the algorithm by Nuutila et Soisalon-Soininen because it was
choking on the memory usage: the set of successor sets (i.e. for any node, the
list of node that can be reached by paths of finite length from that node) is
just too big to be stored, both on memory and on disk. Luckily I could trade
memory for computation time by computing only the set of reachable SCCs from
each SCC. You may ask why we need to compute such a monster and it's simply
because in this way we can prune a path whenever we end up in a node from which
it is impossible to reach the target (and also because we also limit the
all-pairs path computations only to the nodes that we can actually reach).

In the meanwhile, to understand a bit more about the successors set, after
Sandro's suggestion I also plotted the SCC size distribution, which is attached
(CDF and log-binned PDF). Note that the slopes do not match very much (for the
CDF is roughly 2 while for the log-binned density it's roughly 4). It may be a
problem due to the binning but anyway what is important is the large number of
SCCs of size 1. It's almost 95% of the nodes. This could be a problem if many of
those SCCs are actually reachable, because then we don't save much by storing
only the SCC root rather than the whole SCC, but my hunch is that most of them
are probably not reachable (e.g. leaves of the DAG hierarchy). 

## Wed Jun 19 14:01:12 EDT 2013

Bad news. It still takes all the memory on smithers (a total of 144GB). I am
going to compute the successors for 1000 at random and see what the size
distribution of these sets is.

Did an experiment with saving the DBpedia adjancency graph as a sparse file,
which could then be opened with mmap. The estimated size for storing 23M weights
(as 64 bits floats) would be **70GB**. This is because each block with a signe
non-null value must be written in full. With a block size of 4K this should make
sense. PyTables has a `CArray` class that saves the data as a B-tree (chuncked
array) and that should be able to apply compression to the data chuncks. Worth
giving it a look!
